Add Beginners Global Taiko Showdown 2020 article (#4438)
ppy/osu-wiki: wiki/Tournaments/GTS/BGTS_2020/en.md

---
tags:
  - BGTS2020
  - BGTS
  - GTS
---

> # Beginners Global Taiko Showdown

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Beginners Global Taiko Showdown 2020
```
?

![BGTS 2020 logo](img/logo.jpg)

> The **Beginners Global Taiko Showdown 2020** (***BGTS 2020***) is a Beginner worldwide country-based double-elimination 2v2 osu!taiko tournament hosted by ![][flag_FR] [Kasumii-sama](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/6177263), ![][flag_FR] [TLQ\_Yoshii](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/7157133), and ![][flag_FR] [Un bretzel](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/1542565). It is the first installment of the Beginner Global Taiko Showdown and part of the Global Taiko Showdown series.

Reviewer: "beginner" is kinda vague, I think you should remove that and state the rank restriction here instead

| Translator | ![][flag_CL] [Catulus](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/6276709), ![][flag_SG] [dantoh000](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/11414361), ![][flag_IT] [LordEnder](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/4609767), ![][flag_DE] [Sayira](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/7253958), ![][flag_HK] [-Storm7-](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/12248285), ![][flag_NL] [TaikoMom](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/9086438), ![][flag_FR] [TLQ\_Yoshii](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/7157133) |
| Developer | ![][flag_US] [Cychloryn](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/6921736), ![][flag_NL] [oliebol](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/2756335), ![][flag_FR] [ThePooN](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/718454) |
| Wiki editor | ![][flag_ID] [fajar13k](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/7100002) |

## Links

- [Discussion thread](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/1178018)
- [GTS Discord server](https://discord.gg/3mGC3HB)
- [GTS website](https://gtsosu.com/)
- Livestream
  - [GTSosu](https://www.twitch.tv/gtsosu)
  - [GTSosu\_b](https://www.twitch.tv/gtsosu_b)

## Participants

*Participants will be listed as soon as screening phase has been done by the osu! Officials.*

## Mappools

*Mappools will be listed as soon as the first stage kicks off.*

## Ruleset

### General rules

> 1. Beginner Global Taiko Showdown is a **2v2 double-elimination tournament** with teams of **5 players maximum**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. The Beginners Global Taiko Showdown is a **2v2 double-elimination tournament** with teams of **5 players maximum**.
```

2. The teams will first go through a **Qualifiers**. Then they will play in a **Group Stage** and finally play in a **double-elimination bracket**.
3. The scoring system that will be used is **ScoreV2**.

> 4. Any player who meets the requirements stated in the [rank restrictions](#rank-restrictions) section is allowed to sign up. Since AGTS will aim to get badged, some players might be declined by the osu! staff (via screening).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Any player who meets the requirements stated in the [rank restrictions](#rank-restrictions) section is allowed to sign up. Since BGTS will aim to get badged, some players might be declined by the osu! staff (via screening).
```

> 5. To keep the competition fair, there is a team in charge of checking the profile of every single player registered, and if a player's skill is too high for this tournament, they'll not be able to play in this tournament.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Players may have their registration denied if they are deemed to be too skilled for BGTS.
```
think that's all you need to say here, the staff section is somewhere else and this is the "rule". this may fit better in "Tournament registration and teams creation" tho

> 6. Any members of staff apart from **Organiser, Map selector (both general and All Stars), and Referees** are allowed to play.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Any members of staff apart from **organisers, map selectors (both general and All Stars), and referees** are allowed to play.
```

3. The Player Moderation Team formed within the GTS organisation can refuse a player from participating in the tournament, if the organisation deem such player's skill is much higher than the target rank range.
4. We are allowing 2 teams coming from a country under certain conditions:
   - There are **7 or more players** signed up for a country.
   - Each team has to have **at least 3 players**.
5. Because of the previous rule, there are going to be different scenarios when creating the teams:
   - If there are 5 players or less signed up for a country, those players will form the team representing their country.
   - In case there are more than 10 players signed up for a country, players will decide amnong themselves who will partake in the tournament. If they cannot decide the top 10 players, the staff will choose it sorted by ranking to form the 2 teams.
   - If there are 6 players, players will have to decide on the 5 players who will partake in the tournament. If they cannot decide the top 5 players, the staff will choose it sorted by ranking to form the team.

>    - If there are players between 7 - 10 players (after keeping the best ranked ones) signed up for a country, the players from that country will have a few days to decide how to split themselves between the 2 teams. It's recommended to come to an agreement as fast as possible to then decide on the captain and be able to schedule and prepare their matches rapidly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - If there are between 7 and 10 players (after keeping the best ranked ones) signed up for a country, the players from that country will have a few days to decide how to split themselves between the 2 teams. It's recommended to come to an agreement as fast as possible to then decide on the captain and be able to schedule and prepare their matches rapidly.
```

   2. Highest (number of beatmaps won - number of maps lost) score.
   3. Most beatmaps won.
   4. Winner of the match played previously between the tied teams.
6. In Group Stage, "Win by Default" will be treated as win by 5:0, +1.0 score difference ratio.
7. The winning conditions for each stage are listed below:
   - the Group Stage: Best-of-9 (First to 5 points)
   - the Quarterfinals: Best-of-11 (First to 6 points)
   - the Semifinals, the Finals, and the Grand Finals: Best-of-13 (First to 7 points)

### Qualifiers regulations

1. During this round, there will be multiple lobbies available at various hours.
2. A private match will be created and teams will be invited into the lobby when it's their time. Make sure to be available at this time.
3. There are no warmups.
4. Failed scores will count.
5. Only two players from a team will be playing per map. There is no limitation on player swapping.
6. Seedings will be done with the average rank of each team on each map.
7. Maps will be played twice in a row during the lobby. The best run will be taken into account for the ranking.
8. Only the best 32 teams will continue on to the Group Stage.

### Match regulations

> 1. A private lobby will be created 10 minutes before your match by a referee. Both team's captain will be invited into the room when it's match time. Then the referee of the captains will invite the other players into the room.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. A private lobby will be created 10 minutes before your match by a referee. Both team's captains will be invited into the room when it's match time. The referee or the captains will invite the other players into the room.
```
